---
title: "attrition perish treacherous unrest waver"
published: true
tags: English
---

## attrition

at·tri·tion /əˈtrɪʃən/noun [uncountable] formal

1. the process of gradually destroying your enemy or making them weak by
   attacking them continuously:

   - a war of attrition

2. when people leave a company or course of study and are not replaced:

    - Staff reductions could be achieved through attrition and early retirements.

## perish

per·ish /ˈperɪʃ/ verb

1. [intransitive] *formal* or *literary* to die, especially in a terrible or
   sudden way:

   - Hundreds perished when the ship went down.

2. [intransitive and transitive] if rubber or leather perishes, it decay

## treacherous

treach·e·rous /ˈtretʃərəs/adjective

1. someone who is treacherous cannot be trusted because they are not loyal and
   secretly intend to harm you:

   - a sly and treacherous woman
   - a treacherous plot to overthrow the leader

2. ground, roads, weather conditions etc that are treacherous are particularly
   dangerous because you cannot see the dangers very easily:

   - treacherous mountain roads
   - Strong winds and loose rocks made climbing treacherous.

## unrest

un·rest /ʌnˈrest/noun [uncountable]

a political situation in which people protest or behave violently:

- There is a growing unrest throughout the country.

political/social/industrial etc unrest

- The protests were the biggest show of social unrest since the government came
  to power.

## waver

wa·ver /ˈweɪvə $ -ər/verb [intransitive]

1. to become weaker or less certain:

    - Her voice wavered uncertainly.
    - The students' attention id not waver.

    waver in

    - Harris never wavered in his loyalty.

    waver from

    - We were determined not to waver from our goals.

2. to not make a decision because you have doubts:

    - Shareholders who were wavering met the directors.

    waver between something and something

    - The party wavered between free trade and protectionism.

3. to move gently in several different directions:

    - The candle flame wavered, throwing shadows on the wall

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English