---
title: 'Behavior-Driven Development'
published: true
tags: SoftwareEngineering
---

In software engineering, behavior-driven development (BDD) is an agile
software development process that encourages collaboration among developers,
quality assurance experts, and customer representatives in a software
project.[1][2][3] It encourages teams to use conversation and concrete
examples to formalize a shared understanding of how the application should
behave.[4] It emerged from test-driven development
(TDD).[1][2][5][6][vague][7] Behavior-driven development combines the general
techniques and principles of TDD with ideas from domain-driven design and
object-oriented analysis and design to provide software development and
management teams with shared tools and a shared process to collaborate on
software development.[2][7]

Although BDD is principally an idea about how software development should be
managed by both business interests and technical insight, the practice of BDD
does assume the use of specialized software tools to support the development
process.[5] Although these tools are often developed specifically for use in
BDD projects, they can be seen as specialized forms of the tooling that
supports test-driven development. The tools serve to add automation to the
ubiquitous language that is a central theme of BDD.

BDD is largely facilitated through the use of a simple domain-specific
language (DSL) using natural-language constructs (e.g., English-like
sentences) that can express the behaviour and the expected outcomes. Test
scripts have long been a popular application of DSLs with varying degrees of
sophistication. BDD is considered an effective technical practice especially
when the "problem space" of the business problem to solve is complex.[8]

## Reference

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Behavior-driven_development)