---
title: 'BitTorrent'
published: true
tags: Network
---

BitTorrent is a communication protocol for peer-to-peer file sharing (P2P),
which enables users to distribute data and electronic files over the Internet
in a decentralized manner.

To send or receive files, users use a BitTorrent client on their
Internet-connected computer. A BitTorrent client is a computer program that
implements the BitTorrent protocol. BitTorrent clients are available for a
variety of computing platforms and operating systems, including an official
client released by Rainberry, Inc. Popular clients include μTorrent, Xunlei
Thunder,[2][3] Transmission, qBittorrent, Vuze, Deluge, BitComet and Tixati.
BitTorrent trackers provide a list of files available for transfer and allow
the client to find peer users, known as "seeds", who may transfer the files.

Programmer Bram Cohen designed the protocol in April 2001, and released the
first available version on 2 July 2001.[4] On 15 May 2017, BitTorrent, Inc.
(later renamed Rainberry, Inc.) released BitTorrent v2 protocol
specification.[5][6] libtorrent was updated to support the new version on 6
September 2020.[7]

BitTorrent is one of the most common protocols for transferring large files,
such as digital video files containing TV shows and video clips, or digital
audio files containing songs. As of February 2013, BitTorrent was responsible
for 3.35% of all worldwide bandwidth—more than half of the 6% of total
bandwidth dedicated to file sharing.[8] In 2019, BitTorrent was a dominant
file sharing protocol and generated a substantial amount of Internet traffic,
with 2.46% of downstream, and 27.58% of upstream traffic.[9] As of 2013,
BitTorrent had 15–27 million concurrent users at any time.[10] As of January
2012, BitTorrent is utilized by 150 million active users. Based on this
figure, the total number of monthly users may be estimated to more than a
quarter of a billion (≈ 250 million).[11]

The use of BitTorrent may sometimes be limited by Internet Service Providers
(ISPs), on legal or copyright grounds.[citation needed] Users may choose to
run seedboxes or virtual private networks (VPNs) to circumvent these
restrictions.

## Reference

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BitTorrent)