---
title: "lurk platoon thrill vanity venom"
published: true
tags: English
---

## lurk

lurk /lɜːk $ lɜːrk/ verb [intransitive]

1. to wait somewhere quietly and secretly, usually because you are going to do something wrong
    - **lurk in/behind/beneath/around etc**
      - She didn't see the figure lurking behind the bushes.

2. if something such as danger, a feeling etc lurks somewhere, it exists, but you may not see it or know about it:
    - a dark formless danger, lurking in the shadows.

3. if you lurk in a CHAT ROOM on the Internet, you read what other people are writing to each other, but you do not write any messages yourself
    - lurk in
      - I think it's sort of creepy how people lurk in chat rooms.

## platoon

pla·toon /pləˈtuːn/ noun [countable]

a small group of soldiers which is part of a company and is led bt a lieutenant.

## thrill

[transitive] to make someone feel excited and happy

- His music continues to thrill audiences.

**thrill to something** (*also* **thrill at something**) *phrasal verb* *formal*

- to feel excited and happy about something:
  - In the 1960s, the public thrilled to the idea of space exploration

## vanity

van·i·ty /ˈvænəti, ˈvænɪti/noun (plural vanities)

1. [uncountable] too much PRIDE in yourself, so that you are always thinking about yourself and you apprearance:
   - Sabrina had none of the vanity so often associated with beautiful women.

2. [countable] (also **vanity table**) a DRESSING TABLE

3. **the vanity of something** *literary* the lack of importance of something comapred to other things that are much more important

## venom

ven·om /ˈvenəm/ noun [uncountable]

1. great anger or hatred SYN **malice**

    - There was real venom in her voice.
    - a look of pure venom

2. a liquid poison that some snakes, insects etc produce when they bite or sting you:
    - The viper paralyses its prey by injecting it with venom.

## Reference

- Longmang Dictionary of Contemporary English