---
title: 'What is Apigee?'
published: true
tags: API
---

Apigee is a platform for developing and managing APIs. By fronting services
with a proxy layer, Apigee provides an abstraction or facade for your backend
service APIs and provides security, rate limiting, quotas, analytics, and
more.

## High-level architecture

Apigee consists of the following primary components:

- **Apigee services**: The APIs that you use to create, manage, and deploy your API proxies.
- **Apigee runtime**: A set of containerized runtime services in a Kubernetes
  cluster that Google maintains. All API traffic passes through and is
  processed by these services.

In addition, Apigee uses other components including:

- **GCP services**: Provides identity management, logging, analytics, metrics,
  and project management functions.
- **Back-end services**: Used by your apps to provide runtime access to data
  for your API proxies.

## Create an API product

An API proxy is the HTTP endpoint on Apigee that developers use to access your
backend services. While it is possible, you typically do not make individual
API proxies available. Instead, you group one or more API proxies into an API
product.

An API product is a bundle of API proxies combined with a service plan. That
service plan can set access limits on API proxies, provide security, allow
monitoring and analytics, and provide additional features. API products are
also the central mechanism that Apigee uses for authorization and access
control to your APIs.

You have a great deal of flexibility when creating API products. For example,
multiple API products can share the same API proxy. The following figure shows
three API products. Notice that all products allow access to API proxy 3, but
only product A allows access to API proxy 1.

You can set different properties on each API product. For example, you might
make available one API product with a low access limit, such as 1000 requests
per day, for a bargain price. You then release another API product that
provides access to the same API proxy, but with a much higher access limit,
for a higher price. Or, you might create a free API product that allows
read-only access to your services, and then sell an API product to the same
API proxies that allows read/write access.

## Reference

- [https://cloud.google.com/apigee/docs/api-platform/get-started/what-apigee](https://cloud.google.com/apigee/docs/api-platform/get-started/what-apigee)

