---
title: "grace mutiny ponder scarlet shoo"
published: true
tags: English
---

## grace

grace1 /ɡreɪs/ noun

1. [uncountable] a smooth way of moving that looks natural, relaxed, and attractive.
   1. Lena moved with the grace of a dancer.
2. [uncountable] polite and pleasant behavior
   1. The hotel maintains traditional standards of elegance, style, and grace.
   2. have the grace to do something
      1. He didn't even have the grace to apologize (=he was not polite enough
         to apologize)
3. graces [plural] the skills needed to behave in a way that is considered
   polite and socially acceptable
   1. Max definitely lacked social graces.
4. [uncountable] (also grace period American English) more time that is allowed
   to someone to finish a piece of work, pay a debt etc
   1. a day's/week's etc grace
      1. I got a few day's grace to finish my essay.
5. with (a) good/bad grace in a willing and pleasant way, or an unwilling and
   angry way:
   1. Kevin smiled and accepted his defeat with good grace.
   2. With typical bad grace, they refused to come to the party.
6. [uncountable] formal God's kindness that is shown to people
   1. We are saved by God's grace
7. there but for the grace of God (go I) used to say that you feel lucky not to
   be in the same bad situation as someone else.
8. [uncountable] a prayer thanking God, said before a meal
   1. My father said grace
9. [uncountable] the state of someone's soul when it is free from evil,
   according to Christian belief:
   1. He died in a state of grace (=when God has forgiven you for the wrong
      things you have done).

## mutiny

mu·ti·ny /ˈmjuːtəni, ˈmjuːtɪni $ -tn-i/

noun (plural mutinies) [uncountable and countable]

when soldiers, sailors etc refuse to obey the person who is in charge of them,
and try to take control for themselves

mutiny against

- He led a mutiny against the captain.

--mutiny verb [intransitive]

- The soldiers had mutinied over the non-payment of wages

## ponder

pon·der /ˈpɒndə $ ˈpɑːndər/

verb [intransitive and transitive]

formal to spend time thinking carefully and seriously about a problem, a
difficult question, or something that has happened

- He continued to ponder the problem as he walked home.

ponder on/over/about

- The university board is still pondering over the matter.

ponder how/what/whether

- Jay stood still for a moment, pondering whether to go or not.

## scarlet

scar·let /ˈskɑːlət, ˈskɑːlɪt $ -ɑːr-/ adjective

1. bright red
2. British English if you go scarlet, your face become red, usually because you
   are embarrassed or angry
   1. go/turn/flush/blush scarlet
      1. Eileen blushed scarlet at the joke.

--scarlet noun [uncountable]

## shoo

shoo1 /ʃuː/ interjection

used to tell an animal or a child to go away

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English