---
title: "amid captor gore mumble tuck"
published: true
tags: English
---

## amid

a·mid /əˈmɪd/ preposition

1. while noisy, busy, or confused events are happening - used in writing or news
   reports:
   - The dollar has fallen in value amid rumors of weakness in the US economy.
   - Demonstrators ripped up the national flag amid shouts of 'Death to the
     tyrants!'
2. literary among or surrounded by things:
   1. He sat amid the trees.

## captor

cap·tor /ˈkæptə $ -ər/ noun [countable]

someone who is keeping another person prisoner

- He managed to escape from his captors.

## gore

gore1 /ɡɔː $ ɡɔːr/ verb [transitive usually passive]

if an animal gores someone, it wounds them with its horns or TUSKS

- He was attacked and gored by a bull.

## mumble

mum·ble /ˈmʌmbəl/ verb [intransitive and transitive]

to say something too quietly or not clearly enough, so that other people cannot
understand you

- He bumped into someone and mumbled an apology
- Stop mumbling

mumble to yourself

- A woman on the corner was mumbling to herself

- mumble noun [countable]

## tuck

tuck1 /tʌk/ verb

1. [transitive always + adverb/preposition] to push something, especially the
   edge of a piece of cloth or paper, into behind something so that it looks
   tidier or stays in place
   1. tuck something in
      1. Jack tucked his shirt in.
   2. tuck something into/under/behind etc something
      1. She tucked an unruly lock of hair behind her ear.
2. [transitive always + adverb/preposition] to put something into a small space,
   especially in order to protect, hide, carry, or hold it
   1. tuck something behind/under/into etc something
      1. Giles was tucking his pile of books under his arm
      2. He took the glasses off and tucked them in his pocket
3. [transitive] to put a TUCK in a piece of clothing

tuck something <-> away

1. be tucked away
   1. if a place is tucked away, it is in a quiet area
      1. The village of Eyam is tucked away behind the hills
   2. if someone or something is tucked away, they are hidden or difficult to find
      1. The envelope was tucked away in her jewel box.
2. informal to store something, especially money, in a safe place
   1. Every member of the family can now tuck away either $9 or $18 a month in
      on of these savings plans.
3. British English informal to eat a lot of food, usually quickly and with
   enjoyment

tuck in phrasal verb

1. tuck somebody in to make a child comfortable in bed by arranging the sheets
   around them
2. tuck something <-> in to move a part of your body inwards so that tit does
   not stick out so much
   1. Stand up straight and tuck in your tummy.
3. (also tuck into something) informal to eat something eagerly
   1. The ice creams came and we tucked in.
   2. They tucked into a hearty breakfast of eggs.

tuck somebody <-> up

1. to make someone comfortable in bed by arranging the sheets around them
   1. dad tucked me up in his and Carrie's bed.
   2. be tucked up in bed informal to be lying or sitting in bed
      1. I ought to be tucked up in bed now.

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English