---
title: "gape malcontent recoil smoulder tentacle"
published: true
tags: English
---

## gape

gape /ɡeɪp/ verb [intransitive]

1. to look at something for a long time, especially with your mouth open,
   because you are very surprised or shocked
   - gape at
     - What are all these people gaping at?
2. (also gape open) to open widely or be wide open:
   1. Dan stood at the door, his shirt gaping open

## malcontent

mal·con·tent /ˈmælkəntent $ ˌmælkənˈtent/ noun [countable]

formal someone who is likely to cause trouble because they are not happy with
the way things are organized - used in order to show disapproval.

## recoil


re·coil /rɪˈkɔɪl/ verb [intransitive]

1. to move back suddenly and quickly from something you do not like or are
   afraid of
    - recoil from/at
      - She recoiled from his touch as if she had been slapped.
2. to feel such a strong dislike of a particular situation that you want to
   avoid it
    - recoil from/at
      - He recoils from everything in life that demands hard work.
    - We recoil in horror from the thought of subjecting someone to extreme
      pain.
3. if a gun recoils, it moves backwards very quickly after it has been fired

recoil /ˈriːkɔɪl/ noun [singular, uncountable]:

- The recoil of the gun sent him flying backwards.

## smoulder

smoul·der British English, smolder American English /ˈsməʊldə $ ˈsmoʊldər/ verb
[intransitive]

1. if something such as wood smoulders, it burns slowly without a flame.
2. literary if someone smoulder, or if their feelings smoulder, they have strong
   feelings that they do not fully express:
    - He sensed a smouldering hostility towards him.
    - smoulder with
      - She had spent the evening smouldering with resentment

## tentacle

ten·ta·cle /ˈtentəkəl, ˈtentɪkəl/noun [countable]

1. one of the long thin parts of a sea creature such as an OCTOPUS which it uses
   for holding things
2. tentacles [plural] the influence or effect that something has on other people
   or things - used to show disapproval
   - The company's tentacles spread from car manufacturing to railways.

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English