---
title: "ark plea prudent surge tug"
published: true
tags: English
---

## ark

ark /ɑːk $ ɑːrk/ noun [countable]

1. a large ship
2. the Ark in the Bible, the large boat built by Noah to save his family and the animals
   from a flood that overed the earth.

## plea

plea /pliː/ noun

1. [countable] a request that is urgent or full of emotion
   1. plea for
      1. a plea for help
      2. Caldwell made a plea for donations.
   2. plea to
      1. The parents made an emotional plea to their child's kidnappers.
2. [countable usually singular] a statement by someone in a court of law saying whether
   they are guilty or not
   1. a guilty plea
   2. make/enter a plea
      1. Adams entered a plea of 'not guilty'.
3. [singular] an excuse for something
   1. He refused the appointment on a plea of illness

## prudent

pru·dent /ˈpruːdənt/ adjective

sensible and careful, especially by trying to avoid unnecessary risks

- prudent house buyers

it is prudent (for somebody) to do something

- It might be prudent to get a virus detector for the network.

## surge

surge1 /sɜːdʒ $ sɜːrdʒ/ verb [intransitive]

1. [always + adverb/preposition] to suddenly move very quickly in a particular direction
   1. surge forward/through etc
      1. The taxi surged forward
      2. The crowd surged through the gates
2. (also surge up) if a feeling surges or surges up, you begin to feel it very strongly
   1. She could feel anger surging inside her.
3. [usually + adverb/preposition] if a large amount of a liquid, electricity, chemical etc
   surges, it moves very quickly and suddenly
   1. A wave surged up towards them
   2. Adrenalin surged through her veins
4. to suddenly increase
   1. Oil price surged.

## tug

tug1 /tʌɡ/ verb (past tense and past participle tugged, present participle tugging)

1. [intransitive and transitive] to pull with one or more short, quick pulls
   1. The woman gently tugged his arm.
   2. tug at/on something
      1. Joe was tugging at her sleeve
2. [intransitive always + adverb/preposition] British English to pull a piece of clothing
   quickly onto your body
   1. tug something on
      1. Alice was tugging on a sweather.
3. tug at sb's heart/heartstrings written
   1. to make someone feel sympathy for someone or something

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English