---
title: 'contempt delicate inmate tunic wring'
published: true
tags: English
---

## contempt

con·tempt /kənˈtempt/ noun [uncountable]

1. a feeling that someone or something is not important and deserves no respect
   1. contempt for
      1. The contempt he felt for his fellow students was obvious.
   2. utter/deep contempt
      1. The report shows utter contempt for women's judgement.
   3. open/undisguised contempt
      1. She looked at him with undisguised contempt.
      2. The public is treated with contempt by broadcaster.
      3. How could she have loved a man who so clearly held her in contempt?
   4. beneath contempt
      1. That sort of behavior is simply beneath contempt (=does no deserve
         respect or attention)
2. law disobedience or disrespect towards a court of law:
   1. He was jailed for seven says for contempt of court.
   2. in contempt of something
      1. He was found in contempt of the order.
3. complete lack of fear about something
   1. contempt for
      1. his contempt for danger.

## delicate

del·i·cate /ˈdelɪkət, ˈdelɪkɪt/adjective

1. needing to be dealt with carefully or sensitively in order to avoid problems
   or failure:
   - There's something I have to speak to you about - it's a delicate matter.
   - delicate negotiations.
2. easily damaged or broken
   1. delicate hand-cut glass
   2. The sun can easily damage a child's delicate skin.
3. old-fashioned someone who is delicate is hurt easily or easily become ill:
   1. a delicate child
4. a part of the body that is delicate is attractive and graceful:
   1. Her wrists and ankles were slim and delicate.
   2. her delicate features
5. made skillful and with attention to the smallest details:
   1. a plate with a delicate pattern of leaves
6. a taste, smell, or colour that is delicate is pleasant and not strong
   1. The wine has a dry delicate flavour.
   2. a delicate pink

## inmate

in·mate /ˈɪnmeɪt/ noun [countable]

someone who is being kept in a prison

## tunic

tu·nic /ˈtjuːnɪk $ ˈtuː-/ noun [countable]

1. a long loose piece of clothing, usually without sleeves, worn in the past.
2. a long loose women's shirt, usually worn with trousers
3. British English a specially shaped short coat worn by soldiers, police
   officers etc as part of a uniform.

## wring

wring /rɪŋ/ verb (past tense and past participle wrung /rʌŋ/) [transitive]

1. [always + adverb/preposition] to succeed in getting something from someone,
   but only after a lot of effort.
   - The are always trying to wring additional funds from the government.
   - I managed to wring the information out of him.
2. (also wring out) to tightly twist a wet cloth or wet clothes in order to
   remove water
3. wing your hands to rub and twist your hands together because you are worried
   and upset
4. wring sb's hand to shake hands very firmly with someone
5. wring sth't neck to kill a small animal by twisting its neck
6. I'll wring sb's neck spoken used when you are very angry with someone:
   1. I'll wring her neck when I get hold of her!
7. wringing wet extremely wet:
   1. This jacket's wringing wet!

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English