---
title: "angular avail bizarre frantic yank"
published: true
tags: English
---

## angular

an·gu·lar /ˈæŋɡjələ, ˈæŋɡjʊlə $ -ər/ adjective

1. thin and not having much flesh on your bones:
   1. a tall, angular young man
2. having sharp and definite corners:
   1. a cubist painting with angular shapes.

## avail

a·vail1 /əˈveɪl/ noun

to/of no avail if something you do is to no avail of of no avail, you do not
succeed in getting what you want:

- We searched the whole area but all to no avail. Robbie had disappeared.

## bizarre

bi·zarre /bəˈzɑː, bɪˈzɑː $ -ˈzɑːr/adjective

very unusual or strange:

- a bizarre coincidence
- dancers in rather bizarre costume

## frantic

fran·tic /ˈfræntɪk/ adjective

1. extremely worried and frightened about a situation, so that you cannot
   control your feelings
    - get/become frantic
      - There was still no news of Jill, and her parents were getting frantic.
    - frantic with
      - Your mother's been frantic with worrying wondering where you've been.
2. extremely hurried and using a lot of energy, but not very organized
   1. I spent three frantic days trying to get everything ready.
   2. frantic effort/attempt
      1. Despite our frantic efforts, we were unable to save the boy's life.
   3. frantic pace/rush/haste etc
      1. There was a frantic rush to escape from the building.
      2. a day of frantic activity
      3. a frantic search for here father

--frantically adverb

- He frantically searched for the key

## yank

yank /jæŋk/ verb [intransitive and transitive]

informal to suddenly pull something quickly and with force

yank something out/back/open etc

- One of the men grabbed Tom's hair and yanked his head back
- Nick yanked the door open.

yank on/at

- With both hands she yanked at the necklace

-- yank noun [countable]

- He gave the rope a yank.

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English