---
title: "futile hatch heap leash neuter"
published: true
tags: English
---

## futile

fu·tile /ˈfjuːtaɪl $ -tl/ adjective

actions that are futile are useless because they have no chance of being
successful

- a futile attempt to save the paintings from the flames
- My efforts to go back to sleep proved futile.

- it is futile to do something
  - It was futile to continue the negotiations.
  
- futility /fjuːˈtɪləti, fjuːˈtɪlɪti/ noun [uncountable]:
  - This sums up Owen's thoughts on the futility of war.

## hatch

hatch2 noun [countable]

1. a hole in a ship or aircraft, usually used for loading goods, or the door
   that covers it
   1. escape hatch (=a hole in an aircraft etc through which you can escape)
2. (also hatchway) a small hole in the wall or floor between two rooms, or the
   door that covers it
3. down the hatch spoken informal
   1. something you say before drinking an alcoholic drink quickly

## heap

heap1 /hiːp/ noun [countable]

1. a large untidy pile of things
   1. a rubbish heap
   2. heap of
      1. There was a heap of stones where the building used to be
   3. in a heap
      1. The envelopes for posting lay in a heap on her desk
      2. We piled the branches into heaps for burning
2. heaps informal a lot of things
   1. The children have heap of energy.
   2. heaps better/bigger etc (=much better, bigger etc)
3. fall/collapse etc in a heap to fall down and lie without moving
   1. They finally collapsed in a heap on the grass.
4. humorous an old that that is in bad condition
5. at the top/bottom of the heap high up and successful or low down and
   unsuccessful in an organization or in society
   1. The very poor are at the bottom of the heap
6. be struck all of a heap British English old-fashioned
   1. informal to be suddenly very surprised or confused.

## leash

leash1 /liːʃ/ noun [countable] especially American English

1. a piece of rope, leather etc fastened to a dog's collar in order to control it
   1. on/off a leash
      1. At her side on a leash trotted a small grey dog
      2. Never leave your dog off the leash outside a store
2. keep/have somebody on a leash to control someone - used humorously
   1. Marcus keeps you on a short leash, does he?

## neuter

neuter2 verb [transitive]

1. to remove part of the sex organs of an animal so that it cannot produce babies
   1. a neutered tomcat
2. to remove power from something or to stop something from being effective -
   used to show disapproval
   1. Plans to reform local government are designed to neuter local democracy.

## References

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English