---
title: "abacus deflate gawk grandiloquent tame"
published: true
tags: English
---

## abacus

ab·a·cus /ˈæbəkəs/ noun [countable]

a frame with small balls that can be slide along on thick wires, used for
counting and calculating.

## deflate

de·flate /ˌdiːˈfleɪt, dɪ-/ verb

1. [intransitive and transitive] if a tyre, BALLOON etc deflates, or if you
   deflate it, it gets smaller because the gas inside it comes out
   - In everyday British English, people usually say an object goes down rather
     than deflates:
        - It looks like the air bed has gone down.
2. [transitive] to make someone feel less important or less confident:
   1. She was deflated when Fen made no comment on her achievement.
3. [transitive] to show that a statement, argument etc is wrong:
   1. Simkin hoped to find a way to deflate his opponent's argument.
4. [intransitive and transitive] technical to change economic rules or
   conditions in a country so that prices fall or stop rising

## gawk

gawk /ɡɔːk $ ɡɒːk/ verb [intransitive]

informal to look at something for a long time, in a way that looks stupid

gawk at

- Don't just stand there gawking at those girls

## grandiloquent

gran·dil·o·quent /ɡrænˈdɪləkwənt/ adjective formal

using words that are too long and formal in order to sound important.

## tame

tame1 /teɪm/ adjective

1. a tame animal or bird is not wild any longer, because it has been trained to
   live with people
   - tame elephants
2. informal dull and disappointing:
   1. Most of the criticism has been pretty tame.
   2. I decided that teaching was too tame for me.
3. [only before noun] British English used to describe a person who is willing
   to do what other people ask, even if it is slightly dishonest:
   - If you have a tame doctor, he might give you a sick note.

## References

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English