---
title: "incriminate maniacal rowan ambit odour"
published: true
tags: English
---

## incriminate

in·crim·i·nate /ɪnˈkrɪməneɪt, ɪnˈkrɪmɪneɪt/verb [transitive]

to make someone seem guilty of a crime

**incriminate yourself**

- He refused to answer questions for fear he might incriminate himself.

**incriminating** *adjective*

- incriminating evidence

**—incrimination** /ɪnˌkrɪməˈneɪʃən, ɪnˌkrɪmɪˈneɪʃən/ noun [uncountable]

## maniacal

ma·ni·a·cal /məˈnaɪəkəl/ adjective

behaving as if you are crazy

**-maniacally** /-kli/ adverb

## rowan

ro·wan /ˈrəʊən $ ˈroʊ-/ noun [countable]

a small tree with red berries

## ambit

am·bit /ˈæmbət, ˈæmbɪt/ noun [singular] formal

the range or limit of someone's authority, influence etc -> **remit**

**fall within the ambit of something**

- areas falling within the ambit of our research

## odour

o·dour British English, odor American English /ˈəʊdə $ ˈoʊdər/ noun [uncountable and
countable]

a smell, especially an unpleasant one

**odour of**

- the faint odour of damp

**strong/unpleasant/pungent/offensive etc odour**

- obnoxious odours from a factory

## THESAURUS

**smell** something that you can recognize by breathing in through your nose

- the smell from the kitchen
- What's that awful smell?
- the sweet smell of roses

**whiff** something that you smell for a short time

- He caught a whiff of her perfume.
- a whiff of apple blossom

**scent** a smell - used especially about the pleasant smell from flowers, plants, or
fruit. Also used about the smell left by an animal

- The rose had a beautiful scent.
- Cats use their scent to mark their territory.
- the sharp, dying scent of autumn

**fragrance/perfume** a pleasant smell, especially from flowers, plants or fruit.
**Fragrance** and **perfume** are more formal than **scent**

- the sweet perfume of the orange blossoms
- Each mango has its own special fragrance

**aroma** *formal* a pleasant smell from food or coffee

- the aroma of fresh coffee
- The kitchen was filled with the aroma of mines pies

**odour** British English, **odor** American English formal an unpleasant smell

- An unpleasant odour was coming from the dustbins
- the odor of stale tobacco smoke

**pong** British English *informal* an unpleasant smell

- What's that horrible pong?

**stink/stench** a very strong and unpleasant smell

- I couldn't get rid of the stink of sweat
- The toilet gave off a terrible stench

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English