---
title: 'OSI model'
published: true
tags: Network
---

The Open Systems Interconnection model (OSI model) is a conceptual model that characterises and standardises the communication functions of a telecommunication or computing system without regard to its underlying internal structure and technology. Its goal is the interoperability of diverse communication systems with standard communication protocols.

The model partitions the flow of data in a communication system into seven
abstraction layers, from the physical implementation of transmitting bits across
a communications medium to the highest-level representation of data of a
distributed application. Each intermediate layer serves a class of functionality
to the layer above it and is served by the layer below it. Classes of
functionality are realized in software by standardized communication protocols.

## Layer architecture

### Layer 1: Physical Layer

The physical layer is responsible for the transmission and reception of
unstructured raw data between a device and a physical transmission medium. It
converts the digital bits into electrical, radio, or optical signals. Layer
specifications define characteristics such as voltage levels, the timing of
voltage changes, physical data rates, maximum transmission distances, modulation
scheme, channel access method and physical connectors. This includes the layout
of pins, voltages, line impedance, cable specifications, signal timing and
frequency for wireless devices. Bit rate control is done at the physical layer
and may define transmission mode as simplex, half duplex, and full duplex. The
components of a physical layer can be described in terms of a network topology.
Physical layer specifications are included in the specifications for the
ubiquitous Bluetooth, Ethernet, and USB standards. An example of a less
well-known physical layer specification would be for the CAN standard.

### Layer 2: Data Link Layer

### Layer 3: Network Layer

### Layer 4: Transport Layer

### Layer 5: Session Layer

### Layer 6: Presentation Layer

### Layer 7: Application Layer

## Reference

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/OSI_model)