---
title: "What Is an SSL Cipher Suite"
published: true
tags: Network
---

Cipher suites are sets of instructions on how to secure a network through SSL
(Secure Sockets Layer) or TLS (Transport Layer Security). As such, cipher
suites provide essential information on how to communicate secure data when
using HTTPS, FTPS, SMTP and other network protocols. This information takes
the form of algorithms and protocols that help determine how a web server
secures a client’s web traffic. Cipher suites dictate which of these
algorithms the server should use to make a secure and reliable connection. But
it’s important to remember that cipher suites do not just ensure the security,
but also the compatibility and performance of HTTPS connections. So, you
should choose yours wisely.

## How do cipher suites work?

Cipher suites come into play before a client application and server exchange
information over an SSL/TLS connection. As noted by JSCAPE, the client
application initiates what is known as an SSL handshake. Part of that process
involves notifying the server which cipher suites it supports. The server
receives that information and compares the cipher suites supported by the
client application with the algorithms it supports. If and when it finds a
match of supported methods, the server notifies the client application and a
secure connection is established. If it doesn’t find a match, the server
refuses the connection.

Because your web server will ultimately determine the cipher suite that will
be used, it’s important that you prioritize the list of cipher suites you list
on the server. In the section below, we’ll outline the component algorithms
that make up a cipher suite, so you can better understand the function of the
ciphers you list on your web server. Your choice will also likely be
influenced by your users and the technologies they are using.

## What Makes Up a Cipher Suite?

Per Outspoken Media, there are four components that make up a cipher suite. These are as follows:

### Key exchange algorithm

For the insurance of data confidentiality during the transmission of data via
different secure file transfer protocols like SFTP & HTTPS, the data has to be
encrypted. This process requires that the two communicating parties have a
shared key to both encrypt as well as decrypt the data. This type of
encryption scheme is known as symmetric encryption.

Symmetric encryption does have its weaknesses, however. If attackers are able
to get the shared key, then they can easily decrypt all the data. As a result,
the industry developed key exchange protocols for the secure exchange of
symmetric keys over insecure networks. These protocols are known as key
exchange algorithms and include RSA, DH, ECDH and ECDHE.

### Authentication algorithm

To ensure the correct and secure transfer of data, a web server needs to
verify the identity of the user who is receiving the data. Usually, this
process involves the user inputting a set of credentials including a username
and password. To facilitate this authentication process, cipher suites employ
an authentication algorithm such as RSA, DSA and ECDSA.

### Bulk data encryption

To ensure the secure transfer of data, cipher suites come with a bulk data
encryption algorithm. AES, 3DES and CAMELLA are some of the most common
algorithms in this category. As noted by Microsoft, a bulk encryption key is
generated by hashing one of the MAC keys using CryptHashSessionKey together
with the message contents and other data.

### Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm

Message Authentication Code (MAC) algorithm is a piece of information that is
sent along with the message content for the purpose of authenticating the
message. The sender and the receiver share a common key for the MAC algorithm
to work. But this method comes with a disadvantage: it can’t protect against
the intentional change of authentication codes. In certain cases, an intruder
could change the message, then calculate a new checksum and eventually replace
the original checksum with a new value. An ordinary cyclic redundancy check
(CRC) algorithm can help, but it’s useful for detecting only randomly damaged
parts of messages and not intentional changes made by the attacker. Some of
the most common examples of this algorithm are SHA and MD5.

## What a Cipher Suite Looks Like

Put together, here is an example of a cipher suite name:
DHE_RSA_AES256_SHA256. This particular cipher suite uses DHE for its key
exchange algorithm, RSA as its authentication algorithm, AES256 for its bulk
data encryption algorithm, and SHA256 for its Message Authentication Code
(MAC) algorithm.

## Weaknesses Related to Cipher Suites

Several network-level vulnerabilities have emerged in the past. Among them
were SSL/TLS-based vulnerabilities like Heartbleed and POODLE. To mitigate
these vulnerabilities, organizations should use different versions of
available cipher suites or disable the acceptance of vulnerable suites. For
example, to defend against POODLE, SSLv3 needs to be disabled. Disabling
cipher suites can sometimes result in compatibility issues, but JSCAPE points
out that most of the major web browsers update their cipher suites following
the release of an SSL/TLS-based vulnerability anyway. Organizations should
therefore advise web users to install the latest software patches in order to
avoid compatibility issues.

## Cipher Suites supported in TLS 1.2 and TLS 1.3

TLS 1.2, version of TLS that has had the highest adoption rates, has 37
ciphers in total. However, not all of them are safe enough to use. So, the
recommended cipher suites has been pared down to the following:

- TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_DHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256
- TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_CHACHA20_POLY1305

TLS 1.3 was developed to resolve one of the most significant downsides of TLS
1.2: the time it took to process the SSL/TLS handshake. TLS 1.3 eliminated the
RSA algorithm, which used large cryptographic keys to encrypt and decrypt
data. So, SSL cipher suites no longer list the type of certificate—either RSA
or ECDSA—and the key exchange mechanism—DHE or ECDHE. That dramatically
reduces the SSL cipher suite list for TLS 1.3, where there are now five
recommended SSL cipher suites:

- TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
- TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256
- TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
- TLS_AES_128_CCM_8_SHA256
- TLS_AES_128_CCM_SHA256

## Going Beyond Cipher Suites

Of course, cipher suites are just one method of security that organizations
should employ. Companies also need to make sure they defend the SSL/TLS
certificates against digital attackers. To achieve this level of protection,
organizations should consider investing in a solution that helps them
automatically discover all of their encryption keys and certificates, monitor
those assets for signs of misuse, revoke a compromised asset and renew
certificates before their expiration period arrives.

## Reference

- [https://venafi.com/blog/what-are-cipher-suites/](https://venafi.com/blog/what-are-cipher-suites/)