---
title:  "About Me"
published: false
categories: others
---

## Education

- **National University of Singapore**, Singapore
  - *B.S.* in Electrical Engineering, 2011-2015

## Summary

- I have interest in video games, programming, mathematics, physics and Chinese literature.
- I make a living with my programming skills, mainly Ruby on Rails and Node.js for backend.
- I am currently learning video game development and computer graphics.
  
## Experience

### Risewinter Technology, Singapore & China, 2016.04 - 2019.06

- Roles: *Co-founder, Backend Developer, Project Manager*
- Company Summary:
  - Risewinter Technology is a startup company with 40+ people after series A round. 
  - It provides eSports pre-match \& live analysis, prediction service with API, web and mobile APP.
- Work Summary
  - Participate in all stages of product development and management, which include brainstorming, UI evaluation, software development, testing, deployment and maintenance. Focus on providing micro-service, API, automated test, server maintenance and monitoring system for the team.
  - Coordinate development team with product team by distributing tasks, reviewing peer work and tracking development progress.
  - Cooperate with human resources manager on employee management and interview process.

### 2015.06 - 2016.04 Advanced Digital Sciences Center, Illinois at Singapore Pte Ltd

- Roles: *Research Engineer*
- Company Summary
  - ADSC conducted high-impact research in interactive digital media, data visualization, data analytics, 
  and cybersecurity.
- Work Summary
  - Doing experiment with Raspbbery Pi and PowerWorld using Python to simulate cybersecurity effect of 
  Software Defined Network (SDN) on smart power grid.
