---
title: 'Non-volatile random-access memory'
published: true
tags: Hardware
---

Non-volatile random-access memory (NVRAM) is random-access memory that retains data without applied power. This is in contrast to dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) and static random-access memory (SRAM), which both maintain data only for as long as power is applied, or such forms of memory as magnetic tape, which cannot be randomly accessed but which retains data indefinitely without electric power.

Read-only memory devices can be used to store system firmware in embedded systems such as an automotive ignition system control or home appliance. They are also used to hold the initial processor instructions required to bootstrap a computer system. Read-write memory can be used to store calibration constants, passwords, or setup information, and may be integrated into a microcontroller.

If the main memory of a computer system were non-volatile, it would greatly reduce the time required to start a system after a power interruption. Current existing types of semiconductor non-volatile memory have limitations in memory size, power consumption, or operating life that make them impractical for main memory. Development is going on for the use of non-volatile memory chips as a system's main memory, as persistent memory. Known as NVDIMM-P, which standard has been published in 2021.

## Reference

- [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-volatile_random-access_memory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-volatile_random-access_memory)