---
title: '[Structural] Adapter'
published: true
tags: DesignPattern
---

## Real world example

Consider that you have some pictures in your memory card and you need to
transfer them to your computer. In order to transfer them you need some kind
of adapter that is compatible with your computer ports so that you can attach
memory card to your computer. In this case card reader is an adapter. Another
example would be the famous power adapter; a three legged plug can't be
connected to a two pronged outlet, it needs to use a power adapter that makes
it compatible with the two pronged outlet. Yet another example would be a
translator translating words spoken by one person to another

## In plain words

Adapter pattern lets you wrap an otherwise incompatible object in an adapter
to make it compatible with another class.

## Wikipedia says

In software engineering, the adapter pattern is a software design pattern that
allows the interface of an existing class to be used as another interface. It
is often used to make existing classes work with others without modifying
their source code.

## Programmatic Example

Consider a game where there is a hunter and he hunts lions.

First we have an interface `Lion` that all types of lions have to implement

```typescript
interface Lion {
    roar();
}

class AfricanLion implements Lion {
    roar(){

    }
}

class AsianLion implements Lion {
    roar() {
    }
}
```

And hunter expects any implementation of Lion interface to hunt.

```typescript
class Hunter {
    hunt(lion: Lion){
        lion.roar();
    }
}
```

Now let's say we have to add a `WildDog` in our game so that hunter can hunt
that also. But we can't do that directly because dog has a different
interface. To make it compatible for our hunter, we will have to create an
adapter that is compatible

```typescript
class WildDog {
    bark(){

    }
}

class WildDogAdapter implements Lion{
    protected dog: WildDog;

    constructor(dog: WildDog) {
        this.dog = dog;
    }

    roar(){
        this.dog.bark()
    }
}
```

And now the `WildDog` can be used in our game using `WildDogAdapter`.

```typescript
const wildDog = new WildDog()
const wildDogAdapter = new WildDogAdapter(wildDog)

const hunter = new Hunter();
hunter.hunt(wildDogAdapter)
```


## References

- [https://github.com/kamranahmedse/design-patterns-for-humans](https://github.com/kamranahmedse/design-patterns-for-humans)
- [https://github.com/torokmark/design_patterns_in_typescript](https://github.com/torokmark/design_patterns_in_typescript)
- [https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns](https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns)