---
title:  "Understanding C++ Casts"
published: true
categories: tech
tags: C++
---

C++, being a strongly typed language, is strict with its types. And there are always cases
when you need to convert one type into another, which is known as casting.

```cpp
int a = 10;
long b = a;
```

This is known as implicit conversion. More specifically, the above example is of standard
conversion, which occurs automatically between fundamental types and few pointers.

There can also be implicit casts between classes with constructor or operator conversions.

```cpp
struct A {};
struct B {
    B (A a) {}
}

A a;
B b = a;
```

Here an implicit conversion happened from `A` to `B` because `B` has a constructor that
takes an object of A as parameter.

## static_cast

`static_cast` can be used to convert between pointers to related classes (up or down the
inheritance hierarchy). It can also perform implicit conversions.

```cpp
class Mammal {};
class Human : public Mammal {};

Human* h = new Human;

Mammal* m = static_cast<Mammal *>(h);   // cast it to pointer to base type. static_cast here is unnecessary

Mammal* m2 = static_cast<Human *>(m);   // cast back to pointer to derived type
```

When we're casting up the hierarchy, `static_cast` is not needed. Every `Human` is a
`Mammal`. So a `Human *` can be converted to a `Mammal *` implicitly. `static_cast` would
actually perform this implicit cast if you use it anyway.

But every `mammal` may not be a `Human`. So implicit conversion from `Mammal *` to `Human
*` is not allowed. That's where `static_cast` comes in. If we omit the static cast, we'll
get an error something alone the line of

`invalid conversion from 'Mammal*' to 'Human *'`

But, using `static_cast`, we can still do the conversion anyway. `static_cast` doesn't
perform any checks. So it's the programmer duty to ensure that the conversion should be
valid. An invalid conversion might not fail, but can cause problems later when the pointer
points to an incomplete type and is dereferenced.

```cpp
class Mammal {};
class Human : public Mammal {
    public:
        virtual void scream () { // note the virtual
            cout << "MOM" << endl;
        }
}

Mammal* m = new Mammal;
Human* h = static_cast<Human *>(m); // OK so far
h->scream();    // Mayhem!!
```

So don't use `static_cast` to cast down the hierarchy unless you're absolutely sure the
conversion is valid.

`static_cast` won't let you convert between two unrelated classes

```cpp
class A {};
class B {};
A* a = new A;
B* b = static_cast<A *>(a);
```

Gives an error -

`cannot convert 'A*' to 'B*' in initialization`

## dynamic_cast

`dynamic_cast` is related to `static_cast` in the sense that it helps to cast through
inheritance, but it's more powerful than `static_cast` but has an overhead. It performs a
check in order to prevent the case above.

```cpp
class Mammal {};
class Human : public Mammal {};

Human* h = new Human;
Mammal* m = dynamic_cast<Mammal*>(h);   // ok
Human* h1 = dynamic_cast<Human*>(m);    // error
```

The second conversion would produce a compilation error since base-to-derived conversion
are not allowed with `dynamic_cast` unless the base class is polymorphic (has at least one
`virtual` function, either declared or through inheritance).

```cpp
class Mammal {
    public:
        virtual void scream(){}
};

class Human : public Mammal {
    public:
        void scream() override {
            cout << "MOM" << endl;
        }
}

Human* h = new Human;
Mammal* m = dynamic_cast<Mammal *>(h);
Human* h1 = dynamic_cast<Human *>(m);
h1->scream();
```

This works as you'd expect.

What happens if we try to cast a `Mammal *` to a `Human *` where the `Mammal` is not
actually a `Human`? (that crashed the `static_cast` one)

```cpp
Mammal* m = new Mammal;
Human* h = dynamic_cast<Human *>(m);

if(h == nullptr) {
    cout << "Oops! Cast failed!" << endl;   // this will be the result
} else {
    h->scream();
}
```

So, as you can see, `dynamic_cast` performs a check. It returns `nullptr` if you're trying
to convert pointers or throws `std::bad_cast` if you're trying to convert references.

But remember, this check happens in runtime, and not compile time. It require the
**Run-Time Type Information (RTTI)** to keep track of dynamic types and thus has a slight
overhead.

Let's see now what happens when we try to convert two unrelated classes

```cpp
class A {
    public:
        void f(){}
};

class B {};

A* a = new A;
B* b = dynamic_cast<A *>(a);
```

This doesn't give a compilation error (unlike `static_cast`, because the check is
performed at run time at that point `b` will be `nullptr`)

Finally, one more thing `dynamic_cast` can do is "side cast." To understand this, consider
this classic "dreaded diamond" hierarchy

```cpp
struct A {
    virtual void f() = 0;
}

struct L : A {
    virtual void f() override {
        cout << "Left" << endl;
    }
}

struct R : A {
    virtual void f() override {
        cout << "Right" << endl;
    }
}

struct D : L, R {

}
```

By side casting, we mean to say that  we should be able to cast an object of type `L` as
type `R` and it should behave exactly as type `R` (and vice versa). This is of course
possible only when the underlying object is actually of type `D`. `static_cast` however,
can't help here.

```cpp
D* d = new D;
L* l = d;
R* r= d;
A* bl = l;
A* br = r;
br->f();    // Right

static_cast<L *>(br) -> f(); // still prints "Right"
dynamic_cast<L *>(br) -> f(); // prints "Left"bl -> f(); // prints "Left";
static_cast<R *>(bl) -> f(); // still prints "Left"
dynamic_cast<R *>(bl) -> f(); // prints "Right"
```

## const_cast

`const_cast` is the only cast that can be used to add `const` to a type or take `const`
out of a type. This is useful when, say you want to pass a non `const` argument to a
function which expects `const` arguments.

```cpp
void f(int& x) {
    x = 5;
}
```

It expects a non `const` reference to `int`.

Now suppose you have something like this

```cpp
int i = 4;  // non const variable
const int& j = i;   // const reference
```

If you try to call `f` with `j` as argument, you'll get an error

`error: binding reference of type 'int&' to 'const int' discards qualifiers`

What you can do, is to remove the `const` with `const_cast`

```cpp
f(const_cast<int&>(j));
```

Note however, that you can remove `const` away from an object only if it was actually
declared as non `const`. Removing `const` from a `const` object is undefined behavior

```cpp
const int i = 3;
int* p = const_cast<int*>(&i);
*p = 4; // undefined behavior
```

Similarly, you can also add `const` to an object. `const_cast` works on volatile keyword
too, although that's rare.

## reinterpret_cast

This cast converts any type of pointer to any other type of pointer, even unrelated types.
No checks are performed. It simply copies the binary data from one pointer to another.

All types of pointer conversions are allowed. You can even cast pointers to and from
integer types. The only guarantee is that if you cast a pointer to an integer type that is
large enough to hold it back, and then cast it back to pointers, you get a valid pointer

References: [https://codeburst.io/understanding-c-casts-ef1f36e54240](https://codeburst.io/understanding-c-casts-ef1f36e54240)
