---
title: "Talking about the future"
published: true
tags: English
---

There are several ways of talking about the future in English

## THE FUTURE WITH 'WILL'

You put the verb **will** in front of the main verb. This is the most common way of expressing future time. The short form of **will** is **'ll** and the short form of **will not** is **won't**. You usually use these in spoken English instead of **will** or **will not**. The main verb can be either in is 'simple' form or in it's 'progressive' form. For exmaple:

- I will walk to them.
- We'll have a break at six o'clock.
- I'll talkto them.
- He'll be arriving later.
- Don't worry - I won't break it.

You use will in this meaning in sentences that begin **I'm sure, I think, I expect, I suppose, I doubt** etc, or with words such as **probably, perhaps, certainly** etc.

- "Do you think Carta will pass her test?" "Yes, I'm sure she will."
- I'll see him again soon.
- They say it'll probably snow tomorrow.
- Perhaps things will be better next week.

## THE FUTURE WITH 'SHALL'

In British English, you often use **shall** in questions when making suggestions about what to do, or when discussing what to do. This use is rare in American English.

- Shall we go now?
- What shall I tell Mike?

In formal British English, you can sometimes hear **I shall** used to express future time.

- I shall try to persuade them.

This is very rare in American English.

## THE FUTURE WITH 'BE GOING TO'

You use a form of **be going to** to say that something will happen soon.

- It's going to rain.
- Watch out - you're going to hit that tree!
- I think I'm going to be sick.

You also use a form of **be going to** to talk about somneone's intentions, or what they have decided to do.

- I'm going to ask my money back.
- Lucy is going to travel round the world when she leaves shcool.

## THE FUTURE WITH 'BE ABOUT TO'

You use a form of **be going to** to say that something will happen soon.

- Take your seats, please. The show is about to begin.
- I as about to go out when the phone rang.

## THE FUTURE WITH PRESENT PROGRESSIVE

You use the present progressive (**he's leaving, they're starting** etc) with a word or phrase expressing future time to talk about something that will happen because you have planned or arranged it.

- We're leaving on Saturday morning.
- I'm having a party next week - do you want to come?

## THE FUTURE WITH THE SIMPLE PRESENT

- You use the simple present (it starts, we arrive etc) with a word or phrase expressing future time, to say that somethign will definitely happen at a particular time, especially because it has been officially arragned.

- The next plane to Lose Angleles leaves at 6:25
- The meeting is on Thursday
- What time does the show start?

You use the simple present in subordinate clauses to talk about the future, for example in clauses that begin with **when, if, unless, before, after,** and **as soon as**. Don't use **will** in this kind of clause.

- I'll call you when I get back.
- If the bus leaves now, it will get there by 6.

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English