---
title: "deplete designate disclose ditch dogma"
published: true
tags: English
---

## deplete

de·plete /dɪˈpliːt/ verb [transitive usually passive]

- to reduce the amount of something that is present or available:
  - Salmon populations have been **severely depleted**.

## -depletion /dɪˈpliːʃən/ noun [uncountable]:

- the depletion of the ozone layer

## designate

des·ig·nate1 /ˈdezɪɡneɪt/ verb [transitive usually passive]

1. to choose someone or something for a particular job or purpose

    - **be designated something**
        - *The lake was recently designated a conservation area*.

    - **designate something as/for something**
        - Funds were designate for projects in low-income areas.

    - **designate somebody to do something**
        - She has been designated to take over the position of treasurer.

2. to represent or refer to something using a particular sign, name etc:
    - buildings are designated by red squares on the map

## disclose

dis·close /dɪsˈkləʊz $ -ˈkloʊz/ verb [transitive] formal

1. to make something publicly known, especially after it has been kept secret SYN
   **reveal**:

    - Some companies have already voluntarily disclosed similar information.
    - He refused to disclose the identity of the politician.
    - **disclose that**
    - It was disclosed hat $3.5 million was needed to modernize the building.

2. to show something by removing the thing that covers it SYN **reveal**

## THESAURUS

- **reveal** to let someone know about something that is secret or has not been known
  until now:
  - Doctors are allowed to reveal confidential information.
  - It was revealed that he had smoked marijuana at college.

- **tell** to talk about something to someone, so that they know about it:
  - Don't tell anyone about this just yet.
  - Shall I tell you a secret?

- **disclose** *formal* to public reveal something such as a fact or a name that has been
  kept secret:
  - The term of the agreement have not yet been disclosed.
  - The agent did not disclose that there had been a violent crime in the house.

- **divulge** //daɪˈvʌldʒ, də-// *formal* to reveal important or personal information
  which was previously secret or unknown:
  - The bank has refused to divulge its plan.
  - I'm afraid I cannot divulge what was said to me.

- **make something public** to tell people about important information, especially after
  it has been kept secret:
  - Apparently they were engaged for some time before making it public.
  - The government has agreed that sources of financing should in future be made public.

- **leak** to deliberately give secret information to a newspaper, television company etc,
  when a government or other organization wants to keep it secret:
  - The contents of the email were leaked to the press.
  - A man was charged today with leaking official secrets.

- **give something away** (also **spill the beans** *informal*) to tell someone something
  that you want to keep secret:
  - He was careful not to give away any trade secrets.
  - I'm not going to give away how much I paid for it!

- **let slip** *informal* to accidentally tell someone about something:
  - He let slop that he was envious of his older brother.

## ditch

ditch *verb*

1. [transitive] *informal* to stop having something because you no longer want it:
   - the government has ditched plans to privatise the prison.

2. [transitive] *informal* to end a romantic relationship with someone:
    - Meg and Neil were due to marry, but she ditched him.

3. [transitive] *American English spoken informal* to not go to school, a class etc when
   you should SYN **skip** *British English*:
    - Did you ditch class today?

4. [transitive] *American English spoken informal* to leave someone you are with in a
   place without telling them you are going

5. [intransitive and transitive] to land an aircraft in a controlled crash into water:
    - Two balloonists had to ditch during the race.

## dogma

dog·ma /ˈdɒɡmə $ ˈdɒːɡmə, ˈdɑːɡmə/noun [uncountable and countable]

a set of firm beliefs held by a group of people who expect other people to accept these
beliefs without thinking about them

- **religious/political/ideological etc dogma**
  - the rejection of political dogma

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English