---
title: "bombard chap cult murderous sniff"
published: true
tags: English
---

## bombard

bom·bard /bɒmˈbɑːd $ bɑːmˈbɑːrd/ verb [transitive]

1. to attack a place for a long time using large weapons, bombs etc:
   1. I had been in actions, bombarding the Normandy coast
2. to do something too often or too much, for example criticizing or questioning
   someone, or giving too much information
   1. The office was bombarded by telephone calls.
   2. bombard somebody with something
      1. They bombard him with questions
      2. Today we are bombarded with advice on what to eat and what to avoid.

## chap

chap S2 /tʃæp/ noun

1. [countable] especially British English a man, especially a man you know and like
   1. a decent sort of chap
2. chaps [plural] protective leather covers worn over your trousers when riding
   a horse.

## cult

1. [countable] an extreme religious group that is not part of an established religion
2. [countable] a fashionable belief, idea, or attitude that influences people's lives
   1. cult of
      1. Diet, exercise ... It's all part of this cult of self-improvement
3. [singular] a group of people who are very interested in a particular thing
   1. O'Brien has a cult of devoted readers.
4. [uncountable and countable] formal a system of religious beliefs and
   practices

## murderous

mur·der·ous /ˈmɜːdərəs $ ˈmɜːr-/ adjective

1. very dangerous and likely to kill people
   1. a murderous attack
   2. murderous drug dealers
2. murderous look/expression/glare etc
   1. an expression or look which shows that someone is very angry

- murderously adverb

## sniff

sniff1 /snɪf/ verb

1. [intransitive] to breathe air into your nose noisily, for example when you
   are crying or have a cold
   - Margaret sniffer miserably and nodded.
   - Stop sniffing and blow your nose.
2. [intransitive and transitive] to breathe air in through your nose in order to
   smell something
   - He opened the milk and sniffed it
   - sniff at
     - The dog was sniffing at the carpet.
3. [transitive] to say something in a way that shows you think something is not
   good enough
   - 'Is that all?' she sniffed.
4. [transitive] to take a harmful drug by breathing it up your nose
   - kids who sniff glue

sniff at something phrasal verb

1. something is not to be sniffed at especially British English spoken
   1. used to say that something is good enough to be accepted or considered seriously
   2. An 8% salary increase is not to be sniffed at.
2. to refuse something in a proud way, or behave as if something is not good
   enough for you
   1. He sniffed at my choice of restaurants and suggested his own favorite.

sniff something <-> out phrasal verb

1. to discover or find something by its smell
   1. A customs officer came round with a dog to sniff out drugs
2. informal to find out or discover something
   1. Vic's been trying to sniff out where you went last night

## References

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English
