---
title: "seer shudder subdue prise withering"
published: true
tags: English
---

## seer

seer /sɪə $ sɪr/ noun [countable] especially literary

someone who can see into the future and say what will happen.

## shudder

shud·der1 /ˈʃʌdə $ -ər/ verb [intransitive]

1. to shake for a short time because you are afraid or cold, or because you think
   something is very unpleasant:
   1. Maria shuddered as she stepped outside.
   2. shudder with
      1. I shudder with embarrassment whenever I think about it.
   3. shudder at
      1. She shuddered at the thought that she could have been killed.
2. if a vehicle or machine shudders, it shakes violently:
   1. The car shuddered briefly as its engine died.
   2. The train shuddered to a halt.
3. I shudder to think
   1. *spoken* used to say that you do not want to think about something because it is too
      unpleasant.
   2. I shudder to think what they'll say when they see the mess the house is in.

shudder at something *phrasal verb*

- to think that something is very bad or unpleasant:
  - If you love skiing but shudder at the cost, take advantage of our superb family offer.
  - He shuddered at the thought of the conflict ahead.

## subdue

sub·due /səbˈdjuː $ -ˈduː/ verb [transitive]

1. to defeat or control a person or group, especially using force:
   1. Police managed to subdue the angry crowd.
   2. Napoleon subdued much of Europe
2. *formal* to prevent your emotions from showing or being too strong
   1. an excitement she could not subdue.

## prise

prise British English, prize American English /praɪz/ verb [transitive always +
adverb/preposition]

to move or life something by pushing it away from something else:
    - I tried to prise the lid off

prise something out of somebody (also prise something from somebody) phrasal verb

to get something such as information or money from someone when they do not want to give
it to you:
    - I more or less had to prise it out of him.

## withering

with·er·ing /ˈwɪðərɪŋ/ adjective

**a withering look/remark etc** a look,remark etc that makes someone feel
stupid, embarrassed, or lose confidence

--witheringly **adverb*

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English