---
title: "posture resurrection sengoku speculate virtue"
published: true
tags: English
---

## posture

pos·ture /ˈpɒstʃə $ ˈpɑːstʃər/ noun

1. [uncountable and countable] the way you position your body when sitting or standing
    - **good/bad etc posture**
      - Poor posture can lead to muscular problems.
      - her upright posture

2. [singular] the way you behave or think in a particular situation
    - **posture towards**
      - He tends to adopt a defensive posture towards new ideas.

## resurrection

res·ur·rec·tion /ˌrezəˈrekʃən/ noun [singular]

*formal* a situation in which something old or forgotten returns or becomes important again:

- a resurrection of old jealousies

## sengoku

The Sengoku period (戦国時代 Sengoku Jidai, "Age of Warring States"; c. 1467 – c. 1600) is a period in Japanese history marked by social upheaval, political intrigue and near-constant military conflict.

## speculate

spec·u·late /ˈspekjəleɪt, ˈspekjʊleɪt/verb

1. [intransitive and transitive] to guess about the possible causes or effects of
   something, without knowing all the facts and details.

      - She refused to speculate.

      - **speculate on/about (why/what etc)**
        - Jones refused to speculate about what might happen.

      - **speculate that**
        - Some analysts speculated that jobs will be lost.

2. [intransitive] to buy goods, property, SHARES in a compnay etc, hoping that you will
   make a large profit when you sell them.

      - **speculate in/on**
        - He speculated in stocks.

## virtue

vir·tue W3 /ˈvɜːtʃuː $ ˈvɜːr-/ noun

1. [uncountable] *formal* moral goodness of character and behavior OPP **vice**
   - *Women have often been used as symbols of virtue.*

2. [countable] a particular good quality in someone's character OPP **vice**
   - Among her many virtues are loyalty, courage, and truthfulness.

3. [uncountable and countable] an advantage that makes something better or more useful
   than something else
   - **virtue of**
     - Adam Smith believed in the virtues of free trade.

4. **by virtue of something** *formal* by means of, or as a result of something
   - She became a British resident by virtue of her marriage.

5. **make a virtue of something** to get an advantage from a situation that you cannot
   change, usually a bad one:
   - She made a virtue of her acting limitations by joking about them.

6. **make a virtue of necessity** to get an advantage from doing something that you have
   to do, or to pretend that you are doing it willingly

### THESAURUS

#### advantage

- a good feature that something has, which makes it better, more useful etc
than other things:
  - *The great advantage of digital cameras is that there is no film to process.*

#### benefit

- a feature of something that has a good effect on people's lives
  - Regular exercise has many benefits, including reducing the risk of heart diseases.

#### merit

- a good feature that something has, which you consider when you are deciding whether it
  is the best choice
  - The committee will consider the merits of the proposals.
  - The merits and demerits of (=the good and bad features of) alternative funding systems
    were widely discussed in the newspaper.
  - The chairman saw no great merit in this suggestion (=he did not think that it was a
    good idea).

#### virtue

- an advantage that makes you believe that something is a good thing
  - They believed in the virtues of culture, civilization, and reason.

#### the good/great/best thing about something

- *especially spoken*
- used when mentioning a god feature of something.
- This phrase is rather informal and you should not use it in formal essays
  - The good thing about cycling is that you don't have to worry about getting stuck in a
    traffic jam.

#### the beauty of something is that

- used when you want to emphasize that something has a very good or useful feature
  - *The beauty of the plan is that it is so simple.*

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English