---
title: "encumber forfeit fractal heritage hilarious"
published: true
tags: English
---

## encumber

en·cum·ber /ɪnˈkʌmbə $ -ər/ verb [transitive usually passive]

*formal* to make it difficult for you to do something or for something to happen SYN
**burden**

- He died in 1874, heavily encumbered by debt.

**encumber with**

- The whole process was encumbered with bureaucracy.

encumbrance *noun* [countable]

## forfeit

for·feit1 /ˈfɔːfət, ˈfɔːfɪt $ ˈfɔːr-/ verb [transitive]

to lose a right, position, possession etc or have it taken away from you because you have
broken a law or rule:

- By being absent from the trial, he forfeited the right to appeal.
- She was fined £3,000 and ordered to forfeit her car.

## fractal

frac·tal /ˈfræktəl/ noun [countable] technical

a pattern, usually produced by a computer, that is made by repeating the same shape many
times in smaller and smaller sizes

## heritage

her·i·tage1 /ˈherətɪdʒ, ˈherɪtɪdʒ/ noun [singular, uncountable]

the traditional beliefs, values, customs etc of a family, country, or society → inheritance:

- the importance of preserving the national heritage
- beautiful old buildings which are part of our heritage

cultural/architectural/literary etc heritage

- the cultural heritage of Italy

## hilarious

**hi·lar·i·ous** /hɪˈleəriəs $ -ˈler-/ *adjective*

extremely funny:

- a hilarious story

## THESAURUS

**funny** making you laugh:

- John told me a really funny joke.
- She's very talented and funny.

**amusing** *especially written* funny and enjoyable. **amusing** is more formal than
**funny** It is often used when something is a little funny and makes you smile, rather
than laugh:

- an amusing anecdote
- He found the while incident rather amusing.

**humorous** intended to be funny - used about stories, films, articles, etc that have
situations that are a little funny:

- humorous stories
- The movie is meant to be humorous.

**witty** using words in a funny and clever way:

- witty remarks
- How witty!

**hilarious** (*also* **hysterical** informal) extremely funny:

- The children thought it was hilarious.
- The movie has some hilarious scenes.
- It was hysterical! You should have seen his face!

**comical** funny in a strange or silly way - often used when something is not intended to
be funny:

- It was quite comical watching him trying to dance.
- her own comical attempts at painting

**comic** [only before noun] a comic film, play, novel etc is intended to be funny

- a comic drama

**light-hearted** done for amusement or enjoyment, and not intended to be serious:

- The programme is a light-hearted look at recent political events.

**comedy** noun [countable] a film, play, or television programme that is intended to be
funny:

- a comedy by Shakespeare
- She has appeared in several television comedies.
- a new comedy series on Channel 4

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English