---
title: "provocative catalyst anticipate pre-eminent gibberish"
published: true
tags: English
---

## provocative

pro·voc·a·tive /prəˈvɒkətɪv $ -ˈvɑː-/ adjective

1. provocative behavior, remarks etc are intended to make people angry or upset,
   or to cause a lot of discussion
   - provocative comment/remark/statement
     - The minister's provocative remarks were widely reported in the press.
     - a provocative act by a terrorist group
     - She was accused of being deliberately provocative
2. provocative clothes, movements, pictures etc are intended to make someone
   sexually excited
   - provocative images of young girls

- provocatively

## catalyst

cat·a·lyst /ˈkætl-əst, ˈkætl-ɪst/noun [countable]

1. technical a substance that makes a chemical reaction happen more quickly
   without being changed itself
2. something or someone that causes an important change or event to happen
   1. catalyst for
      1. They hope his election will act as a catalyst for reform.

- catalytic /ˌkætlˈɪtɪk◂/ adjective

## anticipate

an·tic·i·pate S3 AC /ænˈtɪsəpeɪt, ænˈtɪsɪpeɪt/ verb [transitive]

1. to expect that something will happen and be ready for it
   1. Sales are better than anticipated.
   2. anticipate changes/developments
      1. The schedule isn't final, but we don't anticipate many changes
   3. anticipate problems/difficulties
      1. We don't anticipate any problems.
      2. A good speaker is able to anticipate an audience's needs and concerns
   4. anticipate (that)
      1. This year, we anticipate that our expenses will be 15% grater
      2. It is anticipated that the research will hae many different practical application
   5. anticipate doing something
      1. I didn't anticipate having to do the cooking myself!
2. to think about something that is going to happen, especially something pleasant
   1. Daniel was eagerly anticipating her arrival.
3. to do something before someone else
   1. Copernicus anticipated in part the discoveries of the 17th and 18th
      centuries.

- anticipatory /ænˌtɪsəˈpeɪtəri, ænˌtɪsɪˈpeɪtəri $ ænˈtɪsəpətɔːri/ adjective formal:
  - the anticipatory atmosphere of a big college football game

## pre-eminent

preeminent /priˈemənənt, priˈemɪnənt/ adjective

much more important, more powerful, or better than any others of its kind

- his pre-eminent position in society

- pre-eminently adverb
- pre-eminence noun [uncountable]

## gibberish

gib·ber·ish /ˈdʒɪbərɪʃ/ noun [uncountable]

something you write or say that has no meaning, or is very difficult to
understand

- You're talking gibberish!

## Reference

- Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English